[Music]
most people don't think about
politics in terms of problem solving
they think about politics in terms of
personal identity
if you live in england you
are a conservative
or you are a liberal
that's how people think about and talk
about their politics and that's what
politics means to them
it's not the solution to any particular
kind of problem if you live in england
do you think that prisons should be
operated
by private corporations for a profit
or do you think they should be run
exclusively
by the state on taxpayers dollars
on a nonprofit basis do you have some
other perspective do you think they
should be run by the church or by
charities
there are other possible perspectives
do you begin or end with a kind of
pragmatic concern
about how to make the best out of your
prison system
no i mean almost nobody
thinks about and lives with politics in
this way
people wake up and eat their breakfast
and go to sleep after dinner as a
conservative
or as a liberal as a socialist
or as a capitalist that's how they chew
their food that's how they
dream in their sleep so they live with
their
political identity the political
identity they adopt
something they feel beholden to it's
something they have to live up to
it's an expectation they impose on
themselves it starts to define what it
means
to be a good person right we chase after
that idea
once we've sort of set it up as an idol
in our own minds
and then we don't we don't question in
an open-ended
pragmatic way oh well you know take a
look at
the worst prisons that are run by the
government they're socialists
they're perfectly socialist and now take
a look at the best prisons
run by the private sector run by private
corporation oh gee it looks like we have
some examples here
where private companies are doing a
better job
running a prison than a socialist
government services
i would be the first to admit by the way
that's disturbing to me
i'm not some rabid free market
pro-capitalist person i'm not
and on an ethical level i can't help but
feel
there's something evil about one person
trying to make as much money as
possible out of keeping another person
in a cage
you know where this birth it's not your
customer
it's not your client it's a prisoner
that's been handed you by the state
and your job is to make this as
profitable as possible for your
shareholders to have the greatest return
on investment
keeping this human being in a cage maybe
feeding them as little as possible or
whatever things it's disturbing it's
shock
and yet if you're willing to learn from
real world experience there's a reason
why
so many western first world countries
including england
including the united kingdom engaged in
an experimental basis
on trying to bring the private sector in
to run prisons in part and in whole of
involving more and more
private for-profit companies in doing
that right
what's the best way to run a train
system
what's the best way to run a hospital
system what's the best way to run the
telecom
system to provide telephones and
internet access to people
if you wake up and go to sleep and live
your whole life with this identity
of being a socialist right you're never
going to
in an open-minded pragmatic way question
and examine the often contradictory and
often disturbing evidence
of why and how it is that the real world
works the way it does
from sector to sector from from case to
case from instance and look guys
i was just clicking around youtube
every so often i think about changing
the genre i'm trapped in a little bit
you know a lot of my time lately is
reading books
big heavy awful imposing books like this
and yeah what's what's going on in
hashtag booktube
booktube is the genre of people who
devote their lives to reading and
reviewing books and what i saw almost at
random you know youtube works it shows
you
shows you some information you're not
exactly searching for but it's also not
exactly a random
there's this controversy within booktube
about who is a real reader
and who is a fake reader people calling
each other a fake reader
right i can understand why once you
adopt this identity once you decide
i'm a booktuber so i'm gonna i'm gonna
read this book
this week and on schedule i'm gonna
upload a book review and then next week
it's gonna be this book
you don't want to let your fans down you
don't want to let yourself down you have
a sense of your own ego
invested in this project and maybe you
end up just reading
the introduction of the conclusion maybe
your book review
isn't isn't really reflecting a
familiarity or the depth of knowledge
of the whole text maybe you really
didn't put as much time into it as you
should and maybe
maybe your channel is successful because
you're handsome
or charming or you're a good-looking
woman who wears a tight sweater while
you're doing the book reviews
and other people get jealous and other
people have read the whole book
and they start denouncing you as a fake
reader
anything anything can get appropriated
in this way
into your own sense of pride and ego and
identity
right it's like being a reader being a
book reviewer
right of course of course people in this
way
become attached to the notion of being a
socialist
or of being pro-capitalist and then that
sense of personal commitment comes first
and forms before
for any any pragmatic real-world sense
of what these terms mean
politically or economically all right
there was another youtuber who made a
couple of really stupid videos
uh criticizing socialism and
whenever i see these things i am myself
the world's harshest critic of socialism
i was the world's harshest critic of
bernie sanders and i actually did read
his book
i uploaded some detailed criticism
bernie sanders in his
campaign for president all right i am a
very harsh critic of socialism if i
watch anyone else criticizing socialism
i feel totally alienated from them i
feel like we have nothing in common i
feel like we're not even living on the
same planet
to be honest with you i'm a critic of
capitalism
not socialist not communist when i
criticize capitalism if i then turn and
look at the other people who are
engaging in critique of capitalism of
course those people are communists those
people are socialists
and i feel like we are not even living
on the same planet i feel like they're
not in touch with
the same reality that i'm trying to
examine
i saw this other youtuber criticizing
socialism
and one of the main points he relies on
or falls back on again and again is this
he complains that in 2021
different people are using different
definitions of socialism
which is true the bernie sanders
definition of socialism
would not be recognized as socialism in
europe
many socialists would not recognize
bernie sanders socialism so it's true
there is more than one is a contentious
term um and then he goes on to complain
if you ever try to confront or criticize
socialists
whatever critique you offer they're
gonna wriggle out of by claiming oh well
that's not really socialism
implicitly or explicitly that's not
really what they meant
and then he goes on to say
understandably but i think he's quite
wrong here
he goes on to say well the problem is
these people haven't actually read karl
marx
these people haven't actually read the
definitive tomes that establish what
what socialism
is like they're marxists in name only
but they're fake readers
you're a fake marxist they call
themselves marxists but they haven't
really read marks they called themselves
socials
but they have natural red socials so
that's not my perspective that i think
he's 180 degrees wrong
brief digression i had an interview
with a 24 year old woman on this channel
more than one year ago but a year and a
half ago
today she was 24 years old at that time
she was a die-hard
card-carrying communist she was a member
of a communist party she supported
communism
and i debated with her i was basically
trying to convince her to give up
communism on camera live for the
entertainment of random people on the
internet right
now if you just watch that video you
might think i made no impact on her at
all
you'd be dead wrong in that conversation
it had huge impact on her
while she was on camera with me she
didn't
she didn't renounce or give up on
communism but obviously i had kind of
cracked the shell and doubts started to
seep
in and within just the weeks immediately
following that conversation we had she
sat and she watched more and more of the
videos on my channel where i'm talking
about
the history of communism the economics
of socialism and capitalism what these
things really mean
and within just a few months she had
completely renounced communism she
ceased to be economist okay
in that discussion in that debate
um there's something i didn't get to say
right toward the end
toward the end i'm asking her well look
how is it
that you think you know what communism
means
now we could say this in parallel about
socialism
where did you get your idea
your definition of communism where does
that come from
there are a bunch of distractions there
are other people trying to interrupt the
debate
it goes where it goes right but the
answer she gives i think is perfectly
sincere
she says she read karl marx she says she
read
vladimir ilyich lennon i think she also
mentions one book by
stalin but she mentions some of these
big big authors the history of communism
and ministry of studies
she says she feels she knows what
communism is
because those are the books she's read
and what i wanted to say to her and what
i want to say to you now
is how would you feel
if you met a 24 year old person today in
they tell you they're a nazi and you ask
them well how do you know
what happened during the nazi period how
do you know about the history of the
nazi party how do you know what nazism
really is and what this really means
and they tell you that they've read
adolf hitler
that what they've read they've only read
propaganda
written by and for that extreme
political
movement all right what i see as the
problem with socialists
what i see is the problem with
communists is not that they're unaware
of karl marx
it's not that they haven't read books
from within the canon
that define socialism it's that they've
only read those books
right they have read you know the
equivalent of adolf hitler
for their political movement and what
they haven't read is the narrative of
what really went on at the gas chambers
it's the equivalent you know in terms of
the producer they haven't read about
what went wrong very often they know the
abstract meaning
of terms like class war
and i've tried this many times sit down
and say do you know what class
war really means have you ever read
first-person perspective descriptions of
what it was like
during the russian revolution when they
went from door to door
and they beat and robbed and raped
and murdered people when women were
raped in front of their own children
when women's husbands were killed so the
women could be raped
there were by the way there was also
ethnic cleansing there was persecution
especially of jews
anti-semitism was a very interesting
part of what happened in the russian
revolution
have you looked at the human face if you
look at the political reality and
practice of what
class war means i had a vivid account in
one of the essays i
wrote where they you know the communists
show up at a mining camp
and they decide they're going to kill
the privileged class within this
mining camp it's ridiculous it was a
modern mining setup it's not the case
that there were slaves and slave owners
or something
and they try to divide the mine workers
amongst themselves and say okay
who can we recruit into our ranks to be
communist
extremists and carry on with the looting
and pillaging and raping and murdering
which they do there's a lot of rape in
that particular historical
that chapter of history and who are the
people in this mind that we can single
out to be
persecuted to be tortured to have their
belongings stolen
and you know ultimately to be to be
killed um in public show trials or
otherwise
you know the the reality of what class
war
means most people
become committed to socialism just as a
series of lines
up on a chalkboard right very very
abstract ideas without being informed by
history history written from any
perspective but certainly without being
informed by history written from an
anti-social spread a critique
of social respect and i'll be the first
one to admit as i've just said
the vast majority of people or critics
of socialism the vast tree people are
anti-socialists
i find deeply embarrassing i find
impossible to listen to i feel like
they're not
living on the same planet that i'm on so
it's hard for me to blame
socialists for not knowing this stuff
now
how do people become socialists they
will have probably heard an argument
like this
in university or maybe even in high
school or maybe while they were still in
primary school somebody somewhere stood
up in front of a chalkboard
and said hey this is social inequality
here are a couple lines
you can live in a society where there
are a few billionaires
there are a few hundred million errors
and there are huge numbers of people
living in poverty is that the kind of
society you want oh and here's socialism
equality no millionaires no billionaires
no poor people
which one sounds better to you which one
are you going to choose
obviously if you approach this equation
with just some real world
mud and blood knowledge of what class
war meant of what really happened in the
russian revolution
of what happened when they reorganized
the farms and reorganize the factories
in order to achieve so-called ecology
what happened
pragmatically and managerially when
people took this simple equation on the
chalkboard and put it into practice
right it was bad for everyone it was bad
for the farmers it was bad for the
factory workers
it wasn't just bad for the people who
got massacred the implementation of
socialism in
in russia in china and cambodia
we could go on with more uh examples of
this kind
right um
but we're given this abstract idol up on
a chalkboard and told to
to make our choice it's an incredibly
effective form of propaganda
and most people go on to live their
whole lives with commitment to this
completely abstract ideology
and then they will force the facts to
fit
that ideology because they feel it's
part of their personal identity because
they feel that any morally good person
would support socialism and during the
last
four years by the way you've seen the
other side of that equation under donald
trump you've seen that there are
millions of people
who from the other side of the aisle
they feel all they need to do to
discredit you
all they need to do to prove that you're
a crackpot is
prove that you're a socialist that as
soon as your name or your policy
or your reformed healthcare as soon as
that can be identified as socialist
you're discredited
because socialism is this terrible
immoral
philosophy right which indeed history
has proven to be a
to be a great failure so you know these
two
tendencies in 2021 i feel they're both
gaining impetus i think they're both
gaining impetus in
opposite directions and i think they're
both well informed
i think all the people involved are
reading books
but tragically they're reading the wrong
books
they're digging themselves in deeper and
deeper to a knowledge
that is narrow and blinds them
more than it informs them even to the
meaning of what
you know communism and socialism and
capitalism and so on
uh really are in practice now
there's another way to teach this
there's nobody teaches to children so
that we teach us the high schoolers
and university students that doesn't
rely
on that kind of abstract reasoning you
can invite people to instead
think about these things in a managerial
pragmatic hands-on problem-solving way
well we're not asking the question who
do you want to be do you want to be a
good person or a bad person
and then we managed to associate being a
good person with being a socialist or
something we said you know what look
i used to live in a poverty stricken
third world country called
laos at that time there were several
initiatives ongoing
to build um infrastructure
for the internet so people could use
cellular phones
modern telephony connect the internet
and change the whole world it changed
people's lives
okay i remember one of the single
greatest impacts
was that farmers in remote villages were
just
able to find out how much money their
crops were worth
if when they loaded it onto their cart
sometimes a cart pulled by a donkey so
it was a cart with a pathetic little
engine
okay but when they loaded their crops
out of their cart many of them had to
ask the question am i going to roll this
car to the east or i'm going to roll it
to the west
you know and oh if i sell it over there
right now the price is high if i sell it
over there right now the price is low
they might have four different
places they can get to to sell their
rice or sell their mangoes whatever it
is they're harvesting
that's what they really need to know and
in the past they didn't know they didn't
know until it was too late
they didn't know so they'd rolled their
cart several miles in the wrong
direction that they should have been
going somewhere else
right really basic fundamentals and of
course of course
you know while i was there you saw the
internet
opening people's eyes because they'd
grown up in a country where the only
newspaper
was published and controlled by the
communist party and now suddenly they
can get every newspaper from everywhere
in the world they can know anything they
want to know
they can answer any question they want
they want to know right i remember
actually being inside a communist party
um office you know
and at that time they launched the first
version
of google earth so people forgot that
there was google maps and they spun off
this separate app that at that time you
had to download and run off your hard
drive your computer
it was called google earth and it wasn't
that different from google from
google maps but it would give you this
3d model
of the whole planet the whole world
there it was rotating on your screen and
you could
you can click and drag around and you
know there was still a country admired
in such third world ignorance they had
really i could tell a million stories
about this
but you know um i met people who really
believed that the map of the world was
like
pac-man it was like the video game
pac-man was like a square map but if you
went off the bottom you came back on the
top
and they actually thought the reason why
there were white people in australia
was that if you went south from
australia you'd be in europe
like if you went south or east off the
map from australia and new zealand
boop you're back in your like that's how
they thought the world worked
and they you know i was trying to
explain no no no no no this actually
there was colonialism and genocide
there's a whole different
you know um so you know the arrival of
the internet here
uh it's true of every every third world
country but especially
a post-war post-communist third world
country it makes a huge difference
in people's lives it's gonna make a huge
difference the future of the country
okay how are you gonna do it
how are you gonna build the cell phone
towers how are you gonna install
the electrical lines the lines that
carry the data
so on and so forth there is one school
of thought that will say passionately
the government should do nothing at all
the government should just sit back
lower taxes and let the private sector
do its thing
leave it up to that and the free market
will innovate and companies will come in
and bid and tender and it'll get done
okay you'll get them when five years
from now
15 years from now 20 years oh and it'll
get done where
all right you know one of the contrasts
between the national postal service
which is socialist and private career
companies
is that private career companies only
thrive
in places like los angeles manhattan
island where there's a lot of business
and a lot of money to be made
who's going to take the mail out to
alaska out to remote
areas where it's unprofitable okay so
yeah maybe some private companies come
in just to provide internet services and
cell phone services
in the the densest part of the capital
city who's going to take this out to the
farmers
in remote areas right so there's another
school of thought that says no
the only way to get this done and the
only way to get it done
today is for the government to declare a
monopoly
to create a socialist service call it
the national telecoms administration
and start building the capacity start
installing what you need so that
everyone can get the internet
and and that'll be everyone that won't
just be the
the urban center it'll be the rural
periphery not just the places where it's
profitable
just the same way the national highways
department builds roads that are never
going to make any money
that go to remote areas just because
politically and erratically it matters
to provide roads to those people
in the same way you're just going to
provide internet connection to the most
remote the most poverty-stricken people
you're going to do it with taxpayers
money and let's let's take it all by the
extreme so it's talking about creating a
government
agency to do this if you want it done
today you want done immediately you
could it could be the military
you get the military corps of engineers
those could be the guys you hire or
whatever
it's okay we already got these guys who
work for the army they don't want to
make bridges they don't make tunnels
they know how to make a bunker they know
how to do electronics for this stuff
you know well we're going to train them
and we're going to have them set up cell
phone towers
and start building the infrastructures
people get internet okay
internet connectivity all right these
are real world problems
each of these solutions right from my
perspective
is wrong in as much as you begin and
conclude the inquiry in a dogmatic way
all right if you begin with the dogmatic
assumption
or the dogmatic assertion that there's
only one way
to build the third world country and
this is it whether it's free market in
the government
both it's all wrong all right real life
is full of
contradictions solutions that work in
laos
won't work in cambodia solutions that
work in cambodia won't work in
canada you have a good idea and a good
government program
but there's maybe just one bad person in
charge and it's a disaster
right i mean the fact that morally i
feel much more comfortable with a
non-profit prison
than a for-profit prison doesn't mean
i'm blind to the fact that
many worldwide a shockingly large
percentage
of purely socialist prison systems are
awful
and individually if you're looking at
prison conditions prison by prison
you start to ask yourself why is the
government so bad at running prisons
maybe the government does such a
terrible job at this that we should
invite the private sector
get involved because this is terrible
just feeding and closing and housing
people and giving them a decent quality
of life in prison
why why is why does a socialist approach
to that fail
so often those are really meaningful
questions when you live with it
especially when you've got skin in the
game there's a
there's a phrase that was in fashion
about 10 years ago in politics
what about when you have your own skin
in the game what about if you're
choosing a prison
that you have to go to if you're just in
prison you're going to spend
10 years in and you're looking prison by
prison and which ones are well managed
which ones are a disaster
what if you're choosing the university
that your child
is going to attend you just assume that
a government administrative
university is better than a private
sector university or one that's owned by
a charity
what about when you're the one who has
to go to the hospital
which hospitals are you looking at do
you just start from a dogmatic
assumption
that a government socialist non-profit
hospital is superior
than a private sector for-profit
hospital right when it's with something
of yours or your life
that's being risked maybe you'll start
inquiring into what works and what
doesn't
in a much more dynamic and incisive way
right
real life in practice is full of these
kinds of
contradictions sort of undiscovered
underlying principles that can't be
generalized about
on a chalkboard
there is a cost there's an unseen
invisible cost
to just employing the military to build
your cell phone towers
right and that is that you're not
developing
the private sector capacity for
innovation
now private sector there's nothing
glorious
or inspirational about it right what the
military can do
in laos or if they create a government
national
telecom service some of this socialist
system
they can take an already existing
technology from china
and already existing technology from
europe united states
and they can build it in laos that's not
really what you want
that's a short-term single stage of
analysis
type of solution right what you really
want
is to have a bunch of guys in a bunch of
offices and a bunch of small
companies competing with each other for
what's going to happen next
you want people innovating about the new
what's on the leading edge
of telecoms what they don't have in
china yet
what's just coming out in silicon valley
even if they're still following
guys who are following that news and
we're figuring oh how can my company
make a little bit of extra money out of
implementing others how can we do
something
new and better and different and more
right
how do you have those companies training
the next generation of people
to to innovate in the telecom sector
when you look at things as just a single
stage of analysis you know sometimes
sometimes that's all there is okay the
people need a bridge
and you say okay the government is going
to build a bridge
the opportunity cost isn't clear to you
say well if the government builds this
bridge
we're never going to have a bunch of
private sector companies setting up
ferries and making money out of running
boats but hey it's worth it we're going
to build this one bridge and then
nothing's going to change for 50 years
sometimes that single stage of analysis
isn't that misleading right
but there is actually cost there are
disadvantages to excluding
the private sector to having an absolute
government monopoly
on anything um including healthcare
all right what is the best way now
in 2021 to provide health care to the
people of cambodia
to the people of canada to the people of
scotland
right it's actually not easy at all
to come to the conclusion that what we
need is a monolithic
non-profit government monopoly that that
will work well there are
plenty of horror stories there are
plenty of signs that
there are plenty of reasons why none of
those countries today
canada scotland cambodia they're really
good reasons why
actually they have this kind of complex
convoluted compromise
between private sector for-profit
for-profit elements
government elements socialist elements
and this weird world in between
of uh socialist sorry pardon me this
weird world in between
of civil society charitable
foundations that are neither entirely
socialist nor
entirely private sector that are
involved with some other reasons uh
some other mix of motives now
all right first things last
what i started this video by saying is
that i feel the most important problem
is the way in which these beliefs become
part of our personal identity that we
think of
ourselves first and foremost as
capitalist
or as socialist or as conservative or as
liberal
and we think this is who i am therefore
this is how the world has to be or
therefore this has to be the
the policy or the institution that's
going to be optimal
that's going to work the best and what
that precludes precisely
is a genuinely skeptical assessment
of what works in practice now
we're also conditioned to think in terms
of these
very simplistic equations on a
chalkboard like well do you want to have
an unequal society
with a few millionaires and huge numbers
of poor people
or do you want everyone to live in
equality and
and social harmony your pick two
incredibly simplistic equations okay
what makes the telecom system work what
makes a good 21st century
telecommunications
infrastructure the answer is never going
to be
that simple it's never going to be some
kind of chalkboard equation like oh well
don't you believe
in equality don't you believe in social
justice well then you must believe
that the government should declare a
monopoly and should directly administer
directly handle
the provision of the internet and
telecoms infrastructure
can't you can't you read what's on the
chalkboard do you really want to live in
a world where there were these easy to
vilify
figures like bill gates the owner of
microsoft uh the owner of amazon.com and
so on where there's a small number of
millionaires and billionaires getting
rich off the internet
as opposed to socializing it and
distributing everyone equally
one of the easiest services imaginable
for the government to take over would be
amazon.com at this stage after they
build it up
government they could have the military
take over those warehouses you could
have a completely
non-profit socialist government
bureaucracy take over the administration
of
of amazon as it exists today right and
then it's
harder to see what's going to be lost
it's harder to see the positive
contribution that's made to your society
by bill gates and jeff bezos by these
corporations
it's hard to see the role of innovation
that you know there's actually
profoundly different if you compare
what government bureaucrats do what even
in running a prison
even in running a university campus
right compared to what the private
sector
can do right and then apart from all
this
it's not just a question of what people
can do but of what they actually
will do right because again you could
say the
something that's the best business in
theory or in principle it's something
that's the best
government bureaucracy in theory or
principle very very often
they fail in practice and looking at
that and looking at the richness of all
the contradictory
details and say oh well they tried to
imitate
the french system in cambodia and for
some reason the french system of medical
insurance just doesn't work in cambodia
let's look at why oh
they took this idea that seemed to work
out okay in scotland and it doesn't work
so well in canada
our university system was created
largely an imitation of the scottish
system
as an example you know that somehow
something went right
in one place and it's going to be for
reasons that can't be captured easily
and can't be
generalized about easily on that
chalkboard
all right um so in conclusion i feel
that i'm living in a world now where
nobody's asking the the most important
question
about socialism um the socialists
know what they know by reading books
written by and for socialists
and
[Music]
i mean the selection of examples it's so
telling
it's so damning let me ask you i have
some viewers in the audience
you know who are socialists and you guys
probably have heard
the same positive examples of socialism
working very well
even though some of them might be
incredibly obscure and incredibly remote
involve small numbers of people for a
small amount of time it's like you know
the anarchists
always want to mention this commune that
came about in southern spain
during the spanish civil war for five
minutes you know three months of anarchy
in one town in southern spain and they
want to immortalize as this example
and the socialists can pick and choose
oh well there's this one kibbutz in
israel
that works on socialist principles
that's okay
myanmar has been on the news so much
lately
have you ever once heard myanmar
referred to as a socialist country
referred to as as a failed
socialist country you know
what do you think about the prisons in
myanmar what do you think about the
hospitals
and healthcare in myanmar if you make a
map of africa
and fill in all the countries that
either were socialists
in the past or some still are now
okay and you look at those countries and
yourself how did health care
work out there how did the telecom
sector
work out there how did any of these
things happen under socialism you know
people live their lives with these
carefully selected
examples that favor in some cases a
totally pro
socialist agenda in some cases of course
in an anti-social agenda
and yeah i do see a lot of this mind
game being played
i have heard socialists insist that
venezuela
is not an example of socialism venezuela
disaster is still ongoing today
and then you hear the pro-capitalist and
says no no yes it is this really matters
this really shows you what happens
when socialists get into power um so on
and so on
so it goes around the map you know what
i see is the fundamental problem
is that indeed the marxists are reading
karl marx
the socialists are reading socialist
propaganda people on youtube
are living within you know categories of
viewing
that only reinforce their own delusions
and they become further and further
unstuck
from reality um there's a very subtle
and very pervasive form of propaganda
that i think for most of us
begins in high school just in learning
about politics
from those abstract principles up on the
chalkboard because what are you being
asked okay so this is the theory like
inequality versus equality
capitalism versus social justice however
it's over it's opposed to you
you know and then the question is which
one are you
the question is what kind of person do
you want to be that's the wrong question
to ask
that's not the question at all right the
question you've got to lead people
through even if it's just as a
thought exercises okay
what if you were the prime minister of
cambodia
today this is the healthcare system
you've got
this is the telecommunication system
you've got this is the train system
you've got
okay do you think it's really a simple
straightforward solution do you think
it's a simple decision to make
just say nope we don't want any private
enterprise we don't want any private
companies involved in
the trains we're gonna do that just with
taxpayers dollars just on a socialist
bureaucratic but no we don't oh all
these
christian charities that are providing
healthcare
these private corporations that are
providing healthcare we're just gonna
kick them out
we're gonna have a 100 socialist
not-for-profit
healthcare system in cambodia if you do
that right now people are going to die
you think that's a simple solution even
if you just look at what if you were in
cambodia right now you have to choose
which hospital you're going to go to and
you take a look at what the government
is providing and you take a look at
what the private sector is providing
laos was still a communist country
when i lived there and i remember i
remember being so astonished being so
freaked out because you wouldn't just
see that comparing
private hospitals to the public
communist
socialist hospitals you know look at the
dental offices
look at the eyeglasses shops i'm sorry
the optometrist where they test your
eyes inside the eyeglasses
and you look at that you think how is it
possible socialism got this wrong
like it's so easy like it's so easy to
test someone's eyes and sell them a pair
of eyeglasses
and here's this private sector shop
doing it and they do a great job
and like two doors over just up the same
street there's the official
like soviet style apparatchik government
department of get your eyeglasses
and it's more expensive and it's slower
and it's worse and it's
they're fundamentally incompetent in all
the ways that the private sector
i got this job is is comp you know and
there isn't
one simple equation on a chalkboard
you know to explain any of it
um you know my concern ultimately
is about people taking on socialism as a
personal identity
and then viewing the world in this way
dogmatically
while being completely aware of the
depth
of their own dogmatism